[MUSIC]
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: The previous two
modules are the most dense modules in this
workshop.
So, we had the high-level view and
then we had the tooling.
I've personally found that 90% of
my frustration comes from something
has jumped the tracks in the tooling.
And that's something that every major
framework is struggling with right now,
is that JavaScript is
evolving incredibly fast.
I mean look where it was, look how long
ES5 existed before ES6 came down the road.
I mean it was traditionally, I think,
a ten-year release cycle, and
then now it's like 2015, 2016.
And so, just the tooling and
everything that's trying to keep up.
We're in a real state of,
I think, transition and
things are evolving very quickly.
And I would say easily one of
the biggest things that I had
the most pain with when it comes
to Angular 2 is the tooling.
I've upgraded, something moved,
and it's broken again, and
I have to figure that out.
But once you get it going,
once you get it working rather,
it just kind of is like a videographer or
a sound person,
they're just in the back,
they do their job and it works excellent.
Love you, guys.
And you don't have to think about
it until something goes wrong.
So, with that said,
the module is going forward.
We're gonna be a little bit more focused,
they're not going to take us long, and
it's going to be a bit shorter, and
we'll get into the challenges quicker.
So, the hard part is done and
let's build some code.
Actually, before I get started,
does anybody have any questions from
this morning online, in real life,
Scott, what do you wanna know?
>> Scott Moss: I wanna know your
favorite dessert.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Ooh.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: French cruller,
I'm a doughnut guy, and
a French cruller is the best.
It's the baseline for
all great doughnut shops.
And he's actually writing
that on the wall over there.
At 17:05,
Lukas made heartfelt admission that
French cruller is his favorite dessert.
So, anyways, if there are no questions,
let's get into component fundamentals.
So, component fundamentals is,
remember I talked about CIDER earlier,
and again, this is just a mnemonic that
I've come up with that is helpful for me.
And so, it's class, define your class,
whatever you're doing.
Define the initial import.
Decorate your class, enhance it,
so iterate over that.
So this is more, it's part art,
part science, and then you repeat or
refactor until you are feature complete.
And then, we'll talk about that for
a bit, and then get into lifecycle hooks.
Yes, I see a hand there.
>> Speaker 3: We're just
a little bit behind,
so now a couple of questions rolled in.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Okay.
>> Speaker 3: You mentioned
never extracting the HTML
into an external file.
What if you wanna use SLIM?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So,
I'd never said never, never.
So, the question is what if you wanted
to use SLIM which I'm presuming is
like a post,
like a pre-processor for HTML?
It's a DIAL light.
Webpack, I'm just kidding.
[LAUGH] I've never used SLIM, so
I'm actually gonna defer to Scott,
but I guess the question would be,
what if you wanna do Hammel or
some other thing?
>> Scott Moss: Yeah,
totally break your HTML out in
another file, that's why it's HTML.
The sweet thing about using a Bundler
like Webpack is that you can
import that template in at build time,
therefore,
saving yourself a call across
the network at runtime.
So, if you have a Bundler, yeah,
totally break out another file, and
if you have Webpack, which is awesome,
it will bring anything in as a string.
So, build in an HTML file, whatever it is,
SLIM, Hammel, Jay, whatever it is,
compile it with Webpack, bring it in as
a string, feed it to your component, and
you're done.
>> Speaker 4: This angular what different
templating languages in line?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So,
by separating out the rendering layer
is I think that the idea is that you could
actually target just about anything.
So, there's been talk about Tobias and
I, Tobeis rather, have talked about
doing a WebGL rendering layer.
You have Universal which is a pretty
phenomenal project, and so, really,
the idea is you could
put anything in there.
In Angular 1, I was on a very large
project, and we actually used Require,
which would then take all of our templates
and just convert them into strings.
And so, instead of using template URL,
you would just use template.
And one of the things, especially if
you're going to do mobile, the most
expensive operation you can do on a mobile
device is actually make a remote call.
Because you actually have to
have a handshake with your
device to the cell tower,
then you have to go fetch the resource,
and then you got the handshake back, and
it's really, really time-intensive and
resource-intensive on your mobile device.
And so, you are much better compiling that
all into a single bundle and taking that
hit upfront, instead of incurring like
20 asynchronous calls over the network.
It's just gonna wipe your phone out, it's
gonna get expensive, so to that, Hammel
can pile it into, or SLIM can pile it into
regular HTML and import it as a string.
Yes, sir?
>> Speaker 5: One thing that I've been
doing is you can actually use Require, and
in components [CROSSTALK].
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yes.
>> Speaker 5: So, in your template,
in your component decorator for
the template variable,
you can do Require, and
give it a final name, and
it will bring that in.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: That's what I've done.
And then, that all gets bundled.
So, bundle all the things and
use whatever you would like.
Because it's all going to end up as HTML
and JavaScript at the end of the day.
I think that's really cool because you now
have a lot of options of what do you wanna
do it in, and how do you wanna write your
CSS, how do you wanna write your HTML,
how do you wanna do your JavaScript?
It all gets bundled, and as long as it
ends up in the format that the browser
can understand, and that Angular
can understand, you're good to go.
And so, again, the cognitive overhead,
the setting up tooling is a little high,
especially for, if you kinda have
a jQuery, UI design background,
it's really foreign.
But once you kind of sort that out, then
you have a lot more options and a lot more
fine grain control over what you're doing,
as well as from a DevOps perspective,
it's really nice when you can say, I wanna
do a local build that I can essentially
debug, but when I do it to my development
server, I want yet another version.
And when I do it to production,
I want even another version.
And so, just kind of taking
that overhead initially and
setting up a good build system,
it's going to set you up for success for
actually putting something
into production and
having it be stable.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Any other questions?
>> Speaker 6: What are are the best
resources for learning how to configure
Webpack?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: What?
>> Scott Moss: So, for me,
what worked for me was very generic,
but the first thing I did was I looked
at the docs, then that confused me.
So then, I found somebody smarter than
me online and I read their blog post or
I looked at their and then what I started
doing was I started picking things that
worked, because build systems are very
unique to the person's project that they
created, so you can't really just copy and
paste somebody's build system Unless
you are going to make your project
look exactly like theirs, too.
So, then what I did was,
from what I learned from the docs and
from what I knew I needed to do, I would
just pick the things that worked from
other blog posts and reposts that I saw.
And then once I was familiar
with how to use Webpack,
I then referenced that to how Webpack
actually worked by going back to the docs.
So, it was a change of going to the docs,
and copying other people's
code until I figured out what were.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
in my case,
I found a C project that just worked
which was the Webpack
starter from Angular class.
And I started to just kinda go through it.
And it's really, initially,
your goal is just to get something up and
running as soon as possible.
And so, I started with a project seed, and
then I went through some different videos,
on Egghead and different things, started
just reading and started to fill that in.
Pete Hunt actually has some pretty
good stuff out there about Webpack.
And so, I would say, first and foremost,
find something that works, and
just start to play with it and see what
happens when you turn this dial or
this knob, or you do this.
And sometimes it'll just blow up, and then
you just revert your thing,or whatever,
just undo it, and just keep doing it.
So, a lot of times I start very practical
and it would start to augment of,
what does ambient mean?
Well, you go look it up and
then you start to fill those pieces in.
But for me, personally, I would say this
is something you kind of have to do,
because every project is different.
You really need to understand
kind of the moving pieces, and
how to dial it in to
your specific project.
And so, I'm completely on board with
Scott that it's really helpful to,
at an atomic level,
understand what is happening.
And some things like, for instance,
change detection in Angular or
something, you can use Angular and
not understand that and you're still okay.
For instance, I digest food and I don't
have to worry about what's happening or
how it's happening.
Thank God.
But with a build system, I think
it's really important to understand
specifically, the pieces,
why they're there, and what's going on.
Because I had a situation where I
built a gold script for somebody and
somebody moved the home or the index.html
page into another directory.
And because this individual I gave
it to did not understand the pieces,
the build was completely broken,
he couldn't figure it out.
So, what I had to do is I just
went into my config block and
I said, just point to the actual
index.html and you're good to go.
And so, that's a case of had you
understood like, it's looking for
my index page here, it's actually over
here, this is why the build is breaking.
So, in this case,
experience is the greatest resource,
trademarked, I need
a t-shirt that says that.
Next question?
>> Speaker 7: I'm caught up here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: You're caught up?
Scott, are you caught up?
>> Scott Moss: Yes.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: All right, so
we're just gonna talk about CIDER, and
we'll see some lifecycle hooks, and
possibly even see how to write
a test in Angular 2 for a component.
I'm not as brave as Scott for life coding,
and so, I very rarely have YOLO moments
when I'm at a public forum like this,
but we're friends and so, we'll see